# Assignment Description
This folder contains work for CS 391L assignment 1.

The objective of this assignment is to develop a classifier for the MNIST digit data set that computes an eigenvector
representation of the data based on the training set, and then uses this representation as features for a
classifier that is then trained. This should then transform the test data to use the same representation and then test
the classifier on the test data.

# Execution Instructions
To run a simple evaluation, consisting of accuracy for a variety of features counts for 784 training samples, accuracy
for a variety of training sample sizes for a fixed feature count, and plots of eigenvectors, classified images, and
the reconstructed images from their eigenvector representations, run the following:

python3 assign1.py --train_image_file <training image file location> --train_label_file <training label file location>
--test_image_file <test image file location> --test_label_file <test label file location>

This will run with a kNN classifer with k=10. You can specify a list of k values to evaluate by adding the -k flag,
followed by the k values. To skip plots, add the -s option. To run with the neural network classifier in addition to
k-NN, add -d (note: this will take considerably longer). This is only an option with the simple evaluation (won't do
anything if used with the --exhaustive flag).

Files are assumed to be in the format provided on the MNIST website (http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/).  

To run an exhaustive search over a large set of training set sizes, feature counts, and k values for the kNN classifier,
add the "--exhaustive" flag. Warning: this will take a long time (> 1 day). Results will be output to a file at the end.

# Code Organization
The purposes of each of the files are as follows:
- assign1.py - orchestrates program execution by reading data, creating classifiers, finding principal components, and
    transforming data to the principal component representation.
- classifer_interface.py - Provides interface that a classifier must implement. Also contains code for evaluating the
    accuracy of the classifier given a test data set and known test labels.
- display_utils.py - Contains functions for plotting results (graphs and images).
- k_nearest_neighbor_classifier.py - Class implementing the kNN classifier.
- mnist_reader.py - Contains functions for reading the MNIST data set (images and labels).
- princ_comp_analysis.py - Contains functions for extracting the eigenvectors and mean of the input data and
    transforming input samples to the eigenvector representation.
- neural_net_classifier.py - Contains classifier that uses TensorFlow neural net to classify.    
The remaining files are for testing (unit test and manual test).
- plot_exhaustive_results.py - Used to read in the CSV generated by an exhasutive run of assign1.py and contains functions for extracting data matching certain parameters (ex. feature count in some specified list of feature counts).

# Required Libraries
You will need to have python3 to run this. In addition, you'll need to have numpy, scipy, matplotlib, and tensorflow, which can be installed using:
"python3 -m pip install --user numpy scipy matplotlib"
